SQL, Structured Query Language, is a programming language designed to manage data stored in relational databases. SQL operates through simple, declarative statements. This keeps data accurate and secure, and it helps maintain the integrity of databases, regardless of size.

1.ALTER TABLE lets you add columns to a table in a database.

2.AND is an operator that combines two conditions. 
  Both conditions must be true for the row to be included in the result set.

3.AS is a keyword in SQL that allows you to rename a column or table using an alias.

4.AVG() is an aggregate function that returns the average value for a numeric column.

5.The BETWEEN operator is used to filter the result set within a certain range. 
  The values can be numbers, text or dates.

6.CASE statements are used to create different outputs (usually in the SELECT statement). 
  It is SQL’s way of handling if-then logic.

7.COUNT() is a function that takes the name of a column as an argument and counts the number of rows where the column is not NULL.

8.CREATE TABLE creates a new table in the database. 
  It allows you to specify the name of the table and the name of each column in the table.

9.DELETE statements are used to remove rows from a table.

10.GROUP BY is a clause in SQL that is only used with aggregate functions. 
   It is used in collaboration with the SELECT statement to arrange identical data into groups.

11.HAVING was added to SQL because the WHERE keyword could not be used with aggregate functions.

12.An inner join will combine rows from different tables if the join condition is true.

13.INSERT statements are used to add a new row to a table.

14.IS NULL and IS NOT NULL are operators used with the WHERE clause to test for empty values.

15.LIKE is a special operator used with the WHERE clause to search for a specific pattern in a column.

16.LIMIT is a clause that lets you specify the maximum number of rows the result set will have.

17.MAX() is a function that takes the name of a column as an argument and returns the largest value in that column.

18.MIN() is a function that takes the name of a column as an argument and returns the smallest value in that column.

19.OR is an operator that filters the result set to only include rows where either condition is true.

20.ORDER BY is a clause that indicates you want to sort the result set by a particular column either alphabetically or numerically.

21.An outer join will combine rows from different tables even if the join condition is not met. 
   Every row in the left table is returned in the result set, and if the join condition is not met, then NULL values are used to fill in the    columns from the right table.

22.ROUND() is a function that takes a column name and an integer as arguments. 
   It rounds the values in the column to the number of decimal places specified by the integer.

23.SELECT statements are used to fetch data from a database. 
   Every query will begin with SELECT.

24.SELECT DISTINCT specifies that the statement is going to be a query that returns unique values in the specified column(s).

25.SUM() is a function that takes the name of a column as an argument and returns the sum of all the values in that column.

26.UPDATE statements allow you to edit rows in a table.

27.WHERE is a clause that indicates you want to filter the result set to include only rows where the following condition is true.

28.WITH clause lets you store the result of a query in a temporary table using an alias. 
   You can also define multiple temporary tables using a comma and with one instance of the WITH keyword.
   The WITH clause is also known as common table expression (CTE) and subquery factoring.